README.md, before:

# Countries Cities People
**A Sample CodeIgniter 4 web application created with [CodeIgniter Wizard](https://www.ozar.net) using the responsive Bootstrap4-based AdminLTE v3 template**

## What is CodeIgniter Wizard?

CodeIgniter Wizard is a Rapid Application Development utility which helps quickly generate an advanced starting point for MySQL/MariaDB database-driven web applications with administrative interfaces.

With a database-first approach, the wizard asks you to select the tables and fields you want to include in your application, and then it automatically generates the necessary models, views and controllers - even the new CodeIgniter 4 entities, supporting standard database CRUD operations namely create, read, update and delete. It even creates a sidebar and (dashboard) home pages automatically with some basic data from your modules.
More information can be found at the [official site of CodeIgniter Wizard](https://www.ozar.net/products/codeigniterwizard/).

## Video of the End-to-End Demo of Making of this App
[![CodeIgniter Wizard](videodemoscreenshot.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fo2wmzZ2p3I)

## Screenshots

### Form View
![Adding / Editing a new record](screenshot1.png)

### Grid View
![Grid View](screenshot2.png)

### Underlying Database
An SQL dump of the database is present at the root of the project. The current version is ccpv4.sql.

### Database E-R Diagram
![Database E-R Diagram](NavicatModelScreenshot.png)

A [tutorial](https://www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action/) for designing the relational data model in Navicat and then exporting (DDL of) it to a database can be found at [www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action](https://www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action/)

## About the Open-source CodeIgniter Framework

CodeIgniter is a PHP full-stack web framework that is light, fast, flexible and secure.
More information can be found at the [official site](http://codeigniter.com).

CodeIgniter4 repository holds the distributable version of the framework,
including the user guide. It has been built from the
[development repository](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4).

More information about the plans for version 4 can be found in [the announcement](http://forum.codeigniter.com/thread-62615.html) on the forums.

The user guide corresponding to this version of the framework can be found
[here](https://codeigniter4.github.io/userguide/).


## Important Change with index.php from CodeIgniter version 3

`index.php` is no longer in the root of the project! It has been moved inside the *public* folder,
for better security and separation of components.

This means that you should configure your web server to "point" to your project's *public* folder, and
not to the project root. A better practice would be to configure a virtual host to point there. A poor practice would be to point your web server to the project root and expect to enter *public/...*, as the rest of your logic and the
framework are exposed.

**Please** read the user guide for a better explanation of how CI4 works!

## Repository Management

We use Github issues, in our main repository, to track **BUGS** and to track approved **DEVELOPMENT** work packages.
We use our [forum](http://forum.codeigniter.com) to provide SUPPORT and to discuss
FEATURE REQUESTS.

This repository is a "distribution" one, built by our release preparation script.
Problems with it can be raised on our forum, or as issues in the main repository.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community.

Please read the [*Contributing to CodeIgniter*](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/contributing.md) section in the development repository.

## Server Requirements

PHP version 7.3 or higher is required, with the following extensions installed:

- [intl](http://php.net/manual/en/intl.requirements.php)
- [libcurl](http://php.net/manual/en/curl.requirements.php) if you plan to use the HTTP\CURLRequest library

Additionally, make sure that the following extensions are enabled in your PHP:

- json (enabled by default - don't turn it off)
- [mbstring](http://php.net/manual/en/mbstring.installation.php)
- [mysqlnd](http://php.net/manual/en/mysqlnd.install.php)
- xml (enabled by default - don't turn it off)

Commit message:

Add PHP via Homebrew instructional video to README.MD file

README.md, after:

# Countries Cities People
**A Sample CodeIgniter 4 web application created with [CodeIgniter Wizard](https://www.ozar.net) using the responsive Bootstrap4-based AdminLTE v3 template**

## What is CodeIgniter Wizard?

CodeIgniter Wizard is a Rapid Application Development utility which helps quickly generate an advanced starting point for MySQL/MariaDB database-driven web applications with administrative interfaces.

With a database-first approach, the wizard asks you to select the tables and fields you want to include in your application, and then it automatically generates the necessary models, views and controllers - even the new CodeIgniter 4 entities, supporting standard database CRUD operations namely create, read, update and delete. It even creates a sidebar and (dashboard) home pages automatically with some basic data from your modules.
More information can be found at the [official site of CodeIgniter Wizard](https://www.ozar.net/products/codeigniterwizard/).

## Screenshots

### Form View
![Adding / Editing a new record](screenshot1.png)

### Grid View
![Grid View](screenshot2.png)

### Underlying Database
An SQL dump of the database is present at the root of the project. The current version is ccpv4.sql.

## Video of the End-to-End Demo of Making of this App
[![CodeIgniter Wizard](videodemoscreenshot.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fo2wmzZ2p3I)
[On YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fo2wmzZ2p3I)

## Installing a local feature-rich PHP development environment for Mac Users (using Homebrew)
### Installing Homebrew on macOS Big Sur
[![Installing Homebrew on macOS Big Sur](https://img.youtube.com/vi/_n2YexLCN8c/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_n2YexLCN8c)
[On YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_n2YexLCN8c)
### Installing PHP 8 via Homebrew on macOS Big Sur
[![Installing PHP 8 via Homebrew on macOS Big Sur](https://img.youtube.com/vi/UK7zPZlUkZg/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UK7zPZlUkZg)
[On YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UK7zPZlUkZg)

### Database E-R Diagram
![Database E-R Diagram](NavicatModelScreenshot.png)

A [tutorial](https://www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action/) for designing the relational data model in Navicat and then exporting (DDL of) it to a database can be found at [www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action](https://www.arclerit.com/blog/new-data-modeling-capabilities-of-navicat-15-in-action/)

## About the Open-source CodeIgniter Framework

CodeIgniter is a PHP full-stack web framework that is light, fast, flexible and secure.
More information can be found at the [official site](http://codeigniter.com).

CodeIgniter4 repository holds the distributable version of the framework,
including the user guide. It has been built from the
[development repository](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4).

More information about the plans for version 4 can be found in [the announcement](http://forum.codeigniter.com/thread-62615.html) on the forums.

The user guide corresponding to this version of the framework can be found
[here](https://codeigniter4.github.io/userguide/).


## Important Change with index.php from CodeIgniter version 3

`index.php` is no longer in the root of the project! It has been moved inside the *public* folder,
for better security and separation of components.

This means that you should configure your web server to "point" to your project's *public* folder, and
not to the project root. A better practice would be to configure a virtual host to point there. A poor practice would be to point your web server to the project root and expect to enter *public/...*, as the rest of your logic and the
framework are exposed.

**Please** read the user guide for a better explanation of how CI4 works!

## Repository Management

We use Github issues, in our main repository, to track **BUGS** and to track approved **DEVELOPMENT** work packages.
We use our [forum](http://forum.codeigniter.com) to provide SUPPORT and to discuss
FEATURE REQUESTS.

This repository is a "distribution" one, built by our release preparation script.
Problems with it can be raised on our forum, or as issues in the main repository.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community.

Please read the [*Contributing to CodeIgniter*](https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/contributing.md) section in the development repository.

## Server Requirements

PHP version 7.3 or higher is required, with the following extensions installed:

- [intl](http://php.net/manual/en/intl.requirements.php)
- [libcurl](http://php.net/manual/en/curl.requirements.php) if you plan to use the HTTP\CURLRequest library

Additionally, make sure that the following extensions are enabled in your PHP:

- json (enabled by default - don't turn it off)
- [mbstring](http://php.net/manual/en/mbstring.installation.php)
- [mysqlnd](http://php.net/manual/en/mysqlnd.install.php)
- xml (enabled by default - don't turn it off)
